Use connections locally (#3225)
astronomer/docs: astro/cli/local-connections.md

---

> sidebar_label: 'Pull connections from Astro'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sidebar_label: 'Use Astro connections locally'
```

title: 'Work locally with Airflow connections hosted on Astro'
id: local-connections
description: Use connections created in the Astro Environment Manager locally.
---

You can share Airflow connections created through the [Astro Environment Manager](create-and-link-connections.md) with local Airflow projects. These connections are not visible from the Airflow UI when you run your project locally.

> When you start a local project using `astro dev start`, you specify either the Workspace or Deployment that you want to import connections from. When you start your project with these settings, the Astro CLI fetches the necessary connections from Astro. Then, after the local Airflow containers start, the Astro CLI populates the metadata database with the connections. This ensures that the connections are encrypted in the metadata database and not easily accessible by an end user.

Reviewer: Add emphasis here on why this matters! Can say it's a better alternative to `airflow_settings.yaml`. SELL this feature!

> ### Prerequisites

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Prerequisites

```

- The latest version of the [Astro CLI](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/install-cli)
- Either a Workspace or Deployment with at least one connection [configured through the Cloud UI](create-and-link-connections.md)
- A local [Astro Project](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/develop-project#create-an-astro-project)
- Astro Runtime 9.3.0 or greater
- `WORKSPACE_AUTHOR`, `WORKSPACE_OPERATOR`, or `WORKSPACE_OWNER` user permissions
- An internet connection

### Setup

1. Enable local development access to connections created in the Cloud UI.

    ```zsh
    # -g sets this config globally
    astro config set -g disable_env_objects false
    ```

2. Log in to Astro.

    ```zsh
    astro login <domain name>
    ```

3. Retrieve the ID of either the Workspace or Deployment that you want to import connections from.

    ```zsh
    # Retrieve Workspace IDs
    astro workspace list
    # Retrieve Deployment IDs
    astro deployment list
    ```

4. Start your project locally.

>     - **Using connections linked to all Deployments in a workspace**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - **Using connections linked to all Deployments in a Workspace**
```

    ```zsh
    astro dev start --workspace-id [workspace-id]
    ```

    - **Using Deployment-level connections**
    ```zsh
    astro dev start --deployment-id [deployment-id]
    ```

>     :::info

Reviewer: Add a 🎉 moment here where the user actually sees their connections locally and it was so easy. This could be just a confirmation step, or a "Now you can..." set of statements (or both)

---
sidebar_label: 'Use Airflow connections from Astro'

> title: 'Work locally with Airflow connections hosted on Astro'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: 'Use Airflow connections hosted on Astro in a local environment'
```

id: local-connections

> description: Use connections created in the Astro Environment Manager locally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Test DAGs locally with Airflow connections that you created in the Astro Environment Manager.
```

---

> You can share Airflow connections created through the [Astro Environment Manager](create-and-link-connections.md) with local Airflow projects. These connections are not visible from the Airflow UI when you run your project locally, instead, they are synced from the Astro Environment Manager using the Astro CLI for the Workspace and Deployment that you want to work with.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you create Airflow connections for a Deployment on Astro with the [Environment Manager](create-and-link-connections.md), you can also use them to test DAGs locally. This is the easiest way to share connection details between a Deployment on Astro and your local Airflow environment.
```

> This means that instead of [importing connection details](import-export-connections-variables.md#using-the-astro-cli-local-environments-only) from Astro to your local Airflow metadatabase, you can configure your CLI to retrieve connection details from the Environment Manager using the Astro API. The CLI then adds your connection details directly to your local Airflow metadata database, so you don't need to manage a `.env` file, secrets backend, or `airflow_settings.yaml` file to keep connection information consistent between your local and cloud-based Deployments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using connections from the Astro Environment Manager in a local Airflow environment means that instead of creating a connection twice or manually importing connection details, you can configure the Astro CLI to use any connections that are already configured for a particular Deployment or Workspace. The CLI then adds your connection details directly to your local Airflow metadata database, so you don't need to manage a `.env` file, secrets backend, or `airflow_settings.yaml` file to keep connection information consistent between your local environment and your Deployments on Astro.
```

The language with the "import" feature is a little confusing (because it's also called "import connections") so I say we just simplify things and ignore it

> To use connections from the Environment Manager locally, start a local project using `astro dev start`, and then specify either the Workspace or Deployment that you want to import connections from. When you start your project with these settings, the Astro CLI fetches the necessary connections from Astro. Then, after the local Airflow containers start, the Astro CLI populates the metadata database with the connections. This ensures that the connections are encrypted in the metadata database and not easily accessible by an end user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use connections from the Environment Manager locally, start a local project using `astro dev start`, and then specify either the Workspace or Deployment that you want to import connections from. When you start your project with these settings, the Astro CLI fetches the necessary connections from Astro. Then, after the local Airflow containers start, the Astro CLI populates the metadata database with the connections. This ensures that the connections are encrypted in the metadata database and not easily accessible by an end user.

Connection details in the Astro Environment Manager are not visible from the Airflow UI when you run your project locally. Instead, they are synced using the Astro CLI for the Workspace and Deployment that you want to work with.
```

Reviewer: Moved the Airflow UI detail to the bottom because that feels like a follow-on detail instead of something that we need to specify upfront before we've established the value of the feature

### Prerequisites

- The latest version of the [Astro CLI](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/install-cli)

> - Either a Workspace or Deployment with at least one connection [configured through the Cloud UI](create-and-link-connections.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Either a Workspace or Deployment with at least one connection [configured through the Astro Environment Manager in the Cloud UI](create-and-link-connections.md)
```

- A local [Astro Project](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/develop-project#create-an-astro-project)
- Astro Runtime 9.3.0 or greater
- `WORKSPACE_AUTHOR`, `WORKSPACE_OPERATOR`, or `WORKSPACE_OWNER` user permissions
- An internet connection

### Setup

> 1. Enable local development access to connections created in the Cloud UI.

Reviewer: Is there any reason a user wouldn't do this? Any implications worth noting? (If so this can be a follow-on PR)

Author: It is not possible to sync connections locally without this step, but it is currently not the default behavior. An administrator also has to enable exporting "secret" variables/connections, so that's another reason why it's not default and why a user might not enable it. If that setting is not configured by the administrator, then the user sees an error when they start their environment (but not in this step). So that's when we call out the error + the resolution instead of adding some caveats to this step.

    ```zsh
    # -g sets this config globally
    astro config set -g disable_env_objects false
    ```

2. Log in to Astro.

    ```zsh
    astro login <domain name>
    ```

3. Retrieve the ID of either the Workspace or Deployment that you want to import connections from.

    ```zsh
    # Retrieve Workspace IDs
    astro workspace list
    # Retrieve Deployment IDs
    astro deployment list
    ```

> 4. Start your project locally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Start your project locally specifying the Deployment or Workspace ID from Step 3.
```

    - **Using connections linked to all Deployments in a Workspace**
    ```zsh
    astro dev start --workspace-id [workspace-id]
    ```

    - **Using Deployment-level connections**
    ```zsh
    astro dev start --deployment-id [deployment-id]
    ```

    :::info

    If you see the error `Error: showSecrets on organization with id is not allowed`, your [Organization Owner](user-permissions.md#organization-roles) needs to enable **Environment Secrets Fetching** in the **Organization Settings** on the Cloud UI before you can use your connections locally. See [Configure environment secrets fetching for the Astro Environment Manager](organization-settings.md#configure-environment-secrets-fetching-for-the-astro-environment-manager).

    :::

> Congratulations! You set up your Astro CLI to retrieve connections from the environment manager to use when working locally. Now you can run DAGs locally that use connections set in the Astro Environment manager.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Congratulations! You set up your local Airflow environment with the Astro CLI to use connections created in the Astro Environment Manager. Now, you can run and test DAGs locally that automatically use these connections without any additional setup.
```
